Supplementary Tables (S2-S23 are in separated files)
S1.	Commercially available single cell sequencing platforms
S2.	Primer sequences used in this work. 
S3.	ZymoBIOMICS Microbial Community Standards species
S4.	ZymoBIOMICS Microbial Community Standards EASi-seq barcode reference genome based analysis. The rows are barcode groups. The first 4 columns are the summary of reference alignment, including totally mapped read count, read count that mapped to the dominant species, purity, and dominant species. The other columns are divided into 4 groups (10 columns each), which represent the mapped read counts to 10 individual species(readCount@species name), covered bases in 10 individual species (covBases@species name), percentage coverages of 10 individual species (CovBases@species name), and mean depth of 10 individual species (meanDepth@specie name). 
S5.	ZymoBIOMICS Microbial Community Standards EASi-seq barcode Taxonomic Discovery Algorithm (TDA) analysis
S6.	ZymoBIOMICS Microbial Community Standards metagenomic generated contigs Taxonomic Discovery Algorithm (TDA) analysis
S7.	List of the 22 strain of E. lenta. 
S8.	E. lenta EASi-seq barcode strain identification.  The rows are barcode groups. The first two columns (Read_Cnt and mapping_rate) are the total read count and overall mapping percentage of the reads to the reference genome. The last column is the strain annotation of the corresponding barcode group. The other 22 columns are the estimated abundance of each strain. 
S9.	Human microbiome EASi-seq barcode Taxonomic Discovery Algorithm (TDA) analysis
S10.	Human microbiome metagenomic generated contigs Taxonomic Discovery Algorithm (TDA) analysis
S11.	Human microbiome cluster statistics. The barcode group count, metagenomic contig count, total read count from single cell and total read from metagenomic contigs of each genus clusters. 
S12.	Human microbiome EASi-seq barcode antibiotic resistance gene discovery. The rows are genera clusters and the columns are antibiotic resistant genes. Each value in the table represents the relative abundance of antibiotic resistant gene (antibiotic resistance gene read count per Million reads). 
S13.	Human microbiome EASi-seq barcode metabolism pathway analysis. The columns are genus clusters. The first 4 columns (pathway_name, function, class, super_class) are the name, function, class and super class of each pathway. The values in the table represent the pathway abundance in the corresponding genus clusters. 
S14.	Costal sea water microbiome EASi-seq barcode Taxonomic Discovery Algorithm (TDA) analysis. The columns are barcode groups. The first 4 columns (percent_covered, read_count_covered, read_assigned, total_reads) represent the percentage of reads that are mapped to the k-mer database, count of reads that mapped to the k-mer database, and the total read count in the barcode group. The barcode groups are filtered (percent_covered > 1%). The next columns with genus names starting with ‘g__’ are Kraken/Bracken estimated genus abundance of the corresponding barcode group. The barcode group were further filtered by the abundance of the dominant genus (> 80%). The last few columns are the UMAP clustering and the taxa annotation. (missing value indicate the barcode group did not pass the filter)
S15.	Costal sea water microbiome EASi-seq barcode clustering statistics. The UMAP coordinate, read counts, barcode count, NCBI_id, and taxa annotation at various level (Domain, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus) of each cluster identified in the EASi-seq barcodes.  
S16.	Halioglobus single cell gene analysis. The columns are Halioglobus barcodes, and the rows are genes identified by HUMANN. Each value in the table represents abundance (RPKs, read count per thousand reads) of the gene in the corresponding barcode group. 
S17.	100 strains for TDA testing (species, NCBI_ID)
S18.	10000 simulated barcode group from the 100 strains (barcode name, purity, total reads)
S19.	Simulation data analysis with Kraken2/Bracken. The rows are barcode groups. The first two columns (Input purity and predicted purity) are the purity of reads in barcode group by design and by Kraken2/Bracken prediction. The third to fifth columns (leiden, celltype, genera_input) are the result of UMAP clustering. Leiden represent the clusters identified by UMAP. Celltype represents the predicted genus and the genera_input are the genus used to generate the simulation barcode group. The rest of the columns are the Kraken2/Bracken generated abundance of corresponding genus listed as the column names.  
S20.	Simulation data analysis with MetaPhlAn. The rows are barcode groups. The first two columns (Input purity and predicted purity) are the purity of reads in barcode group by design and by MetaPhlAn prediction. The third to fifth columns (leiden, celltype, genera_input) are the result of UMAP clustering. Leiden represent the clusters identified by UMAP. Celltype represents the predicted genus and the genera_input is the genus used to generate the simulation barcode group. The rest of the columns are the MetaPhlAn generated relative abundance (percentage) of corresponding genus listed as the column names.  
S21.	Simulation data analysis with Kaiju. The rows are barcode groups. The first two columns (Input purity and predicted purity) are the purity of reads in barcode group by design and by Kaiju prediction. The third to fifth columns (leiden, celltype, genera_input) are the result of UMAP clustering. Leiden represent the clusters identified by UMAP. Celltype represents the predicted genus and the genera_input are the genus used to generate the simulation barcode group. The rest of the columns are the Kaiju generated relative abundance (percentage) of corresponding genus listed as the column names. 

